############################################
Django Facebook by Thierry Schellenbach (http://www.mellowmorning.com)
############################################

About Django Facebook
--------

Django Facebook allows you to connect to the Facebook Open Graph API.

Features
	Access the Facebook API
	Django User Registration (Use Facebook data to register a user with your Django app. Facebook connect using the open graph API. Similar to a login flow.)
	Canvas Page signature parsing and authentication (If your building facebook apps)

Works best with
--------

	registration
    django auth
    
TODO (help appreciated)
--------

	testing (especially a dummy FB api)
	separate user data conversion and FB api improvements
	fully replace the facebook GraphAPI which they no longer support
   
    
New in Version 2.0 Alpha
--------

	canvas page support for facebook applications
	mobile facebook registration support (tested with titanium FB flow)
	less requirements (jinja, view decorator, django notify and cjson requirements removed)
	fql support
	
    
Installing
--------

	Step 0 - Create a facebook app
		In case you don't yet have a facebook app. You need an app to use the open graph api and make the login process work.
		You can create a facebook app at this url:
		http://www.facebook.com/developers/createapp.php 

    Step 1 - Settings:
        Define the settings mentioned in django_facebook/settings.py in your settings.py file
        
    Step 2 - Url config:
        add 
        (r'^facebook/', include('django_facebook.urls')),
        to your global url file 
        
    Step 3 - Template Context Processor
    	add this line to your context processors
    	'django_facebook.context_processors.facebook',
        
    Step 3 - Ensure the FB JS api is available on all pages you want to login
    [Facebook JS API](http://developers.facebook.com/docs/reference/javascript/)
    
    Step 4 - Update your models
        
        Add to your user profile model
        about_me = models.TextField(blank=True, null=True)
        facebook_id = models.IntegerField(blank=True, null=True)
        facebook_name = models.CharField(max_length=255, blank=True, null=True)
        facebook_profile_url = framework_fields.URLTextField(blank=True, null=True)
        website_url = framework_fields.URLTextField(blank=True, null=True)
        blog_url = framework_fields.URLTextField(blank=True, null=True)
        image = models.ImageField(blank=True, null=True)
        date_of_birth = models.DateField(blank=True, null=True)
    
    Step 5 - Template
    	See examples/connect.html
    
    
Django Jobs
--------
	Do you also see the beauty in clean code? Are you experienced with high scalability web apps?
	Currently we're looking for additional talent over at our Amsterdam office.
	Feel free to drop me a line at my personal email for more information: thierryschellenbach[at]gmail.com
	